Three complaints, one shape.
p02
Tickets stopped reaching Zoho.
p03
Single sign-on users locked out.
p04
An accounting export full of holes.
p05
Each one is a connector that quit authenticating, and each gets the same read:
p06
open the connector, check its status, check its token,
p07
then look at the surface the user actually feels.
p08
Open the connector. Settings, Integrations, Zoho Desk.
p09
One chip is the headline: Not Configured, with a warning triangle.
p10
In this demo tenant Zoho was never connected, so that reading is honest.
p11
On a live tenant that chip is your first and fastest read, before you touch anything else.
p12
Four tiles sit across the top of the card.
p13
Connection reads Not set, which matches the banner.
p14
Data center, US. Sync direction, both.
p15
When a working connection drops, this row is the quick read
p16
before you go digging through credentials.
p17
Top right, two buttons.
p18
Test Connection fires a live probe against the real integration.
p19
Edit Configuration opens the credential form.
p20
Both are admin actions on production.
p21
You locate them so your escalation can name them,
p22
and you never click either one from the demo tenant.
p23
Now the Settings tab, and the credentials block.
p24
Client ID, secret, tokens: all blank or not set here.
p25
The field that matters most is token expiry.
p26
A connector that worked yesterday and fails today usually has a lapsed token behind it.
p27
Expiry in the past, access token gone.
p28
The re-auth is an admin job, and none of these values ever goes into your ticket.
p29
Two more reads before you leave.
p30
Under General, Enabled says yes. Under Sync, the direction is both.
p31
So nobody switched it off. The failure is authentication.
p32
And the Instructions tab next door holds the reconnect procedure for the admin who runs it.
p33
Symptom one, the help desk surface.
p34
Open I-T and Support, then Help Desk Zoho.
p35
The page loads, and it tells the truth.
p36
Every ticket count reads as a dash, and the card in the middle says Zoho Desk not connected,
p37
with a button routing back to Settings.
p38
Dashes in a healthy frame point at the connector, not the page.
p39
That is your ticket surface evidence.
p40
Symptom two, single sign-on lockouts.
p41
Open System Users, under Users and Security.
p42
More than eight thousand accounts load here, and two columns carry this ticket.
p43
S-S-O flags who signs in through the provider, plain yes or no chips.
p44
Last login shows when each of them last got in.
p45
When the provider drops, the yes rows are your outage list.
p46
Symptom three, the accounting export.
p47
Back in Integrations, the accounting connector reads exactly like Zoho did:
p48
status chip, test button, token block.
p49
Same read, same rules, same hands off.
p50
And if the connection is fine but entries land under the wrong codes, that's GL Code mapping.
p51
Different lesson.
p52
One trap before you write anything up.
p53
Pages have bad minutes.
p54
A list that will not load, or a stray fetch error,
p55
can be the app's own data service hiccuping, and neither one proves an integration is down.
p56
Reload first. Then let the connector's status chip make the call.
p57
Now the escalation.
p58
Name the integration. Quote the status banner word for word.
p59
Say whether an admin ran Test Connection and what it returned.
p60
Give the failure window with timestamps.
p61
And keep every token, secret, and masked value out of it. No exceptions.
p62
That's the whole playbook.
p63
Scope to one connector. Read the chip, then the token expiry.
p64
Locate Test Connection and leave it alone.
p65
Confirm the surface the user feels, rule out a transient fetch error,
p66
and route a ticket an admin can act on.
p67
Every screen stayed read-only, start to finish.